docs/BOOT_LOADER_INTERFACE.md, before:

---
title: Boot Loader Interface
category: Booting
layout: default
SPDX-License-Identifier: LGPL-2.1-or-later
---

# The Boot Loader Interface

systemd can interface with the boot loader
to receive performance data and other information,
and pass control information.
This is only supported on EFI systems.
Data is transferred between the boot loader and systemd in EFI variables.
All EFI variables use the vendor UUID `4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`.
Variables will be listed below using the Linux efivarfs naming,
`<name>-<vendoruuid>`.

* The EFI Variable `LoaderTimeInitUSec-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the timestamp in microseconds when the loader was initialized.
  This value is the time spent in the firmware for initialization.
  It is formatted as numeric, NUL-terminated, decimal string, in UTF-16.

* The EFI Variable `LoaderTimeExecUSec-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the timestamp in microseconds when the loader finished its work and is about to execute the kernel.
  The time spent in the loader is the difference between `LoaderTimeExecUSec` and `LoaderTimeInitUSec`.
  This value is formatted the same way as `LoaderTimeInitUSec`.

* The EFI variable `LoaderDevicePartUUID-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the partition GUID of the ESP the boot loader was run from
  formatted as NUL-terminated UTF16 string, in normal GUID syntax.

* The EFI variable `LoaderConfigTimeout-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the boot menu timeout currently in use.
  It may be modified both by the boot loader and by the host.
  The value should be formatted as numeric, NUL-terminated, decimal string, in UTF-16.
  The time is specified in seconds.
  In addition some non-numeric string values are also accepted.
  A value of `menu-force` will disable the timeout and show the menu indefinitely.
  If set to `0` or `menu-hidden` the default entry is booted immediately without showing a menu.
  Unless a value of `menu-disabled` is set,
  the boot loader should provide a way to interrupt this
  by for example listening for key presses for a brief moment before booting.

* Similarly, the EFI variable `LoaderConfigTimeoutOneShot-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains a boot menu timeout for a single following boot.
  It is set by the OS in order to request display of the boot menu on the following boot.
  When set overrides `LoaderConfigTimeout`.
  It is removed automatically after being read by the boot loader,
  to ensure it only takes effect a single time.
  This value is formatted the same way as `LoaderConfigTimeout`.
  If set to `0` the boot menu timeout is turned off,
  and the menu is shown indefinitely.

* The EFI variable `LoaderEntries-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  may contain a series of boot loader entry identifiers,
  one after the other, each individually NUL terminated.
  This may be used to let the OS know which boot menu entries were discovered by the boot loader.
  A boot loader entry identifier should be a short, non-empty alphanumeric string
  (possibly containing `-`, too).
  The list should be in the order the entries are shown on screen during boot.
  See below regarding the recommended vocabulary for boot loader entry identifiers.

* The EFI variable `LoaderEntryDefault-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the default boot loader entry to use.
  It contains a NUL-terminated boot loader entry identifier.

* The EFI variable `LoaderEntrySysFail-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  specifies the boot loader entry to be used in case of a system failure.
  System failure (SysFail) boot entries
  can optionally modify the automatic selection order in the event of a failure,
  such as a boot firmware update failure with the failure status recorded in the EFI system table.
  If a system failure occurs and `LoaderEntrySysFail` is set,
  systemd-boot will use this boot entry,
  and store the actual SysFail reason in the `LoaderSysFailReason` EFI variable.

* The EFI variable `LoaderSysFailReason-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the system failure reason.
  This variable is used in cooperation with `LoaderEntrySysFail` boot entry.
  If system failure doesn't occur, `LoaderSysFailReason` is not set.

* Similarly, the EFI variable `LoaderEntryOneShot-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the default boot loader entry to use for a single following boot.
  It is set by the OS
  in order to request booting into a specific menu entry on the following boot.
  When set overrides `LoaderEntryDefault`.
  It is removed automatically after being read by the boot loader,
  to ensure it only takes effect a single time.
  This value is formatted the same way as `LoaderEntryDefault`.

* The EFI variable `LoaderEntrySelected-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the boot loader entry identifier that was booted.
  It is set by the boot loader and read by the OS
  in order to identify which entry has been used for the current boot.

* The EFI variable `LoaderFeatures-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains a 64-bit unsigned integer with a number of flags bits
  that are set by the boot loader and passed to the OS
  and indicate the features the boot loader supports.
  Specifically, the following bits are defined:

  * `1 << 0` → The boot loader honours `LoaderConfigTimeout` when set.
  * `1 << 1` → The boot loader honours `LoaderConfigTimeoutOneShot` when set.
  * `1 << 2` → The boot loader honours `LoaderEntryDefault` when set.
  * `1 << 3` → The boot loader honours `LoaderEntryOneShot` when set.
  * `1 << 4` → The boot loader supports boot counting as described in [Automatic Boot Assessment](/AUTOMATIC_BOOT_ASSESSMENT).
  * `1 << 5` → The boot loader supports looking for boot menu entries in the Extended Boot Loader Partition.
  * `1 << 6` → The boot loader supports passing a random seed to the OS.
  * `1 << 7` → The boot loader supports loading of drop-in drivers from the `/EFI/systemd/drivers/` directory on the ESP,
               see [`systemd-boot(7)`](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-boot.html).
  * `1 << 8` → The boot loader supports the `sort-key` field defined by the
               [Boot Loader Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification).
  * `1 << 9` → The boot loader supports the `@saved` pseudo-entry
  * `1 << 10` → The boot loader supports the `devicetree` field defined by the
                [Boot Loader Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification).
  * `1 << 11` → The boot loader support automatic enrollment of SecureBoot keys,
                see [`systemd-boot(7)`](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-boot.html).
  * `1 << 12` → The boot loader will set EFI variable `ShimRetainProtocol-605dab50-e046-4300-abb6-3dd810dd8b23`
                for `shim` to make its protocol available to the booted binary.
  * `1 << 13` → The boot loader honours `menu-disabled` option when set.
  * `1 << 14` → The boot loader supports multi-profile Unified Kernel Images (UKIs)
  * `1 << 15` → The boot loader sets the `LoaderDeviceURL` variable when appropriate.
  * `1 << 16` → The boot loader supports the `uki` field defined by the
                [Boot Loader Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification).
  * `1 << 17` → The boot loader supports the `uki-url` field defined by the
                [Boot Loader Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification).
  * `1 << 18` → The boot loader reports active TPM2 PCR banks in the
                EFI variable `LoaderTpm2ActivePcrBanks-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`.

* The EFI variable `LoaderSystemToken-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains binary random data,
  persistently set by the OS installer.
  Boot loaders that support passing random seeds to the OS
  should use this data and combine it with the random seed file read from the ESP.
  By combining this random data with the random seed read off the disk
  before generating a seed to pass to the OS and a new seed to store in the ESP
  the boot loader can protect itself from situations where
  "golden" OS images that include a random seed are replicated and used on multiple systems.
  Since the EFI variable storage is usually independent
  (i.e. in physical NVRAM) of the ESP file system storage,
  and only the latter is part of "golden" OS images,
  this ensures that different systems still come up with different random seeds.
  Note that the `LoaderSystemToken` is generally only written once,
  by the OS installer,
  and is usually not touched after that.

* The EFI variable `LoaderDeviceURL-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the URL the boot loader was downloaded from,
  in UTF-16 format.
  Only set in case of network boots.

* The EFI variable `LoaderTpm2ActivePcrBanks-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains a hexadecimal string representation of a bitmask with values defined by
  the TCG EFI ProtocolSpecification for TPM 2.0 as `EFI_TCG2_BOOT_HASH_ALG_*`.
  If no TPM2 support or no active banks were detected, will be set to `0`.

If `LoaderTimeInitUSec` and `LoaderTimeExecUSec` are set, `systemd-analyze`
will include them in its boot-time analysis.  If `LoaderDevicePartUUID` is set,
systemd will mount the ESP that was used for the boot to `/boot`, but only if
that directory is empty, and only if no other file systems are mounted
there. The `systemctl reboot --boot-loader-entry=…` and `systemctl reboot
--boot-loader-menu=…` commands rely on the `LoaderFeatures` ,
`LoaderConfigTimeoutOneShot`, `LoaderEntries`, `LoaderEntryOneShot`
variables.

## Boot Loader Entry Identifiers

While boot loader entries may be named relatively freely,
it's highly recommended to follow these rules when picking identifiers for the entries,
so that programs (and users) can derive basic context and meaning from the identifiers
as passed in `LoaderEntries`, `LoaderEntryDefault`, `LoaderEntryOneShot`, `LoaderEntrySelected`,
and possibly show nicely localized names for them in UIs.

1. When boot loader entries are defined through the
   [BOOT.1 Boot Loader Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification/)
   files, the identifier should be derived directly from the file name,
   but with the `.conf` (Type #1 snippets) or `.efi` (Type #2 images)
   suffix removed.

2. Entries automatically discovered by the boot loader
   (as opposed to being configured in configuration files)
   should generally have an identifier prefixed with `auto-`.

3. Boot menu entries referring to Microsoft Windows installations
   should either use the identifier `windows`
   or use the `windows-` prefix for the identifier.
   If a menu entry is automatically discovered,
   it should be prefixed with `auto-`, see above.
   (Example: this means an automatically discovered Windows installation
   might have the identifier `auto-windows` or `auto-windows-10` or so.).

4. Similarly, boot menu entries referring to Apple macOS installations
   should use the identifier `osx` or one that is prefixed with `osx-`.
   If such an entry is automatically discovered by the boot loader use `auto-osx` as identifier,
   or `auto-osx-` as prefix for the identifier, see above.

5. If a boot menu entry encapsulates the EFI shell program,
   it should use the identifier `efi-shell`
   (or when automatically discovered: `auto-efi-shell`, see above).

6. If a boot menu entry encapsulates a reboot into EFI firmware setup feature,
   it should use the identifier `reboot-to-firmware-setup`
   (or `auto-reboot-to-firmware-setup` in case it is automatically discovered).

## Links

[UAPI.1 Boot Loader Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification)<br>
[UAPI.2 Discoverable Partitions Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/discoverable_partitions_specification)<br>
[`systemd-boot(7)`](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-boot.html)<br>
[`bootctl(1)`](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/bootctl.html)<br>
[`systemd-gpt-auto-generator(8)`](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-gpt-auto-generator.html)

Commit message:

systemd-boot: add a preferred setting that's similar to default but avoids booting known-bad entries
Motivation:
Currently, when setting the default boot pattern, boot assessment status
is not taken into account. This means that with boot assessment enabled,
when an explicit boot entry is configured as the default entry using an
EFI var, as is common for instance in A/B boot schemes, the configured
entry will be booted indefinitly, regardless of the entry's boot
assessment status.
In order to allow for this use case in combination with boot assessment,
we introduce a new `preferred` keyword, both in the config file and in the
bootctl CLI, that acts very similar to the existing `default` keyword but
takes boot assessment into account and never selects any entries that
have been marked as bad.
If the preferred pattern does not resolve to any bootable entry, and a
default pattern is also specified, then the default pattern will be
considered next, and we may then still select a known-bad entry to be
booted.

Fixes: https://github.com/systemd/systemd/issues/31215
Fixes: https://github.com/systemd/systemd/issues/40192

docs/BOOT_LOADER_INTERFACE.md, after:

---
title: Boot Loader Interface
category: Booting
layout: default
SPDX-License-Identifier: LGPL-2.1-or-later
---

# The Boot Loader Interface

systemd can interface with the boot loader
to receive performance data and other information,
and pass control information.
This is only supported on EFI systems.
Data is transferred between the boot loader and systemd in EFI variables.
All EFI variables use the vendor UUID `4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`.
Variables will be listed below using the Linux efivarfs naming,
`<name>-<vendoruuid>`.

* The EFI Variable `LoaderTimeInitUSec-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the timestamp in microseconds when the loader was initialized.
  This value is the time spent in the firmware for initialization.
  It is formatted as numeric, NUL-terminated, decimal string, in UTF-16.

* The EFI Variable `LoaderTimeExecUSec-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the timestamp in microseconds when the loader finished its work and is about to execute the kernel.
  The time spent in the loader is the difference between `LoaderTimeExecUSec` and `LoaderTimeInitUSec`.
  This value is formatted the same way as `LoaderTimeInitUSec`.

* The EFI variable `LoaderDevicePartUUID-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the partition GUID of the ESP the boot loader was run from
  formatted as NUL-terminated UTF16 string, in normal GUID syntax.

* The EFI variable `LoaderConfigTimeout-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the boot menu timeout currently in use.
  It may be modified both by the boot loader and by the host.
  The value should be formatted as numeric, NUL-terminated, decimal string, in UTF-16.
  The time is specified in seconds.
  In addition some non-numeric string values are also accepted.
  A value of `menu-force` will disable the timeout and show the menu indefinitely.
  If set to `0` or `menu-hidden` the default entry is booted immediately without showing a menu.
  Unless a value of `menu-disabled` is set,
  the boot loader should provide a way to interrupt this
  by for example listening for key presses for a brief moment before booting.

* Similarly, the EFI variable `LoaderConfigTimeoutOneShot-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains a boot menu timeout for a single following boot.
  It is set by the OS in order to request display of the boot menu on the following boot.
  When set overrides `LoaderConfigTimeout`.
  It is removed automatically after being read by the boot loader,
  to ensure it only takes effect a single time.
  This value is formatted the same way as `LoaderConfigTimeout`.
  If set to `0` the boot menu timeout is turned off,
  and the menu is shown indefinitely.

* The EFI variable `LoaderEntries-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  may contain a series of boot loader entry identifiers,
  one after the other, each individually NUL terminated.
  This may be used to let the OS know which boot menu entries were discovered by the boot loader.
  A boot loader entry identifier should be a short, non-empty alphanumeric string
  (possibly containing `-`, too).
  The list should be in the order the entries are shown on screen during boot.
  See below regarding the recommended vocabulary for boot loader entry identifiers.

* The EFI variable `LoaderEntryPreferred-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the preferred boot loader entry to use.
  This takes boot assessment into account by not selecting boot entries that have
  been marked as bad,
  see <ulink url="https://systemd.io/AUTOMATIC_BOOT_ASSESSMENT">Automatic Boot Assessment</ulink>
  for more details on boot assessment.
  If no entry was selected by the preferred setting (from either the EFI var or
  the config file), then the boot loader will look at the default setting, which
  does not skip entries that were marked as bad.
  It contains a NUL-terminated boot loader entry identifier.

* The EFI variable `LoaderEntryDefault-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the default boot loader entry to use.
  This ignores boot assessment and can select boot entries that have been marked
  as bad by boot assessment,
  see <ulink url="https://systemd.io/AUTOMATIC_BOOT_ASSESSMENT">Automatic Boot Assessment</ulink>
  for more details on boot assessment as well as the documentation on the
  `LoaderEntryPreferred` EFI var.
  It contains a NUL-terminated boot loader entry identifier.

* The EFI variable `LoaderEntrySysFail-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  specifies the boot loader entry to be used in case of a system failure.
  System failure (SysFail) boot entries
  can optionally modify the automatic selection order in the event of a failure,
  such as a boot firmware update failure with the failure status recorded in the EFI system table.
  If a system failure occurs and `LoaderEntrySysFail` is set,
  systemd-boot will use this boot entry,
  and store the actual SysFail reason in the `LoaderSysFailReason` EFI variable.

* The EFI variable `LoaderSysFailReason-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the system failure reason.
  This variable is used in cooperation with `LoaderEntrySysFail` boot entry.
  If system failure doesn't occur, `LoaderSysFailReason` is not set.

* Similarly, the EFI variable `LoaderEntryOneShot-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the default boot loader entry to use for a single following boot.
  It is set by the OS
  in order to request booting into a specific menu entry on the following boot.
  When set overrides `LoaderEntryPreferred` and `LoaderEntryDefault`.
  It is removed automatically after being read by the boot loader,
  to ensure it only takes effect a single time.
  This value is formatted the same way as `LoaderEntryDefault` and `LoaderEntryPreferred`.

* The EFI variable `LoaderEntrySelected-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the boot loader entry identifier that was booted.
  It is set by the boot loader and read by the OS
  in order to identify which entry has been used for the current boot.

* The EFI variable `LoaderFeatures-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains a 64-bit unsigned integer with a number of flags bits
  that are set by the boot loader and passed to the OS
  and indicate the features the boot loader supports.
  Specifically, the following bits are defined:

  * `1 << 0` → The boot loader honours `LoaderConfigTimeout` when set.
  * `1 << 1` → The boot loader honours `LoaderConfigTimeoutOneShot` when set.
  * `1 << 2` → The boot loader honours `LoaderEntryDefault` when set.
  * `1 << 3` → The boot loader honours `LoaderEntryOneShot` when set.
  * `1 << 4` → The boot loader supports boot counting as described in [Automatic Boot Assessment](/AUTOMATIC_BOOT_ASSESSMENT).
  * `1 << 5` → The boot loader supports looking for boot menu entries in the Extended Boot Loader Partition.
  * `1 << 6` → The boot loader supports passing a random seed to the OS.
  * `1 << 7` → The boot loader supports loading of drop-in drivers from the `/EFI/systemd/drivers/` directory on the ESP,
               see [`systemd-boot(7)`](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-boot.html).
  * `1 << 8` → The boot loader supports the `sort-key` field defined by the
               [Boot Loader Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification).
  * `1 << 9` → The boot loader supports the `@saved` pseudo-entry
  * `1 << 10` → The boot loader supports the `devicetree` field defined by the
                [Boot Loader Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification).
  * `1 << 11` → The boot loader support automatic enrollment of SecureBoot keys,
                see [`systemd-boot(7)`](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-boot.html).
  * `1 << 12` → The boot loader will set EFI variable `ShimRetainProtocol-605dab50-e046-4300-abb6-3dd810dd8b23`
                for `shim` to make its protocol available to the booted binary.
  * `1 << 13` → The boot loader honours `menu-disabled` option when set.
  * `1 << 14` → The boot loader supports multi-profile Unified Kernel Images (UKIs)
  * `1 << 15` → The boot loader sets the `LoaderDeviceURL` variable when appropriate.
  * `1 << 16` → The boot loader supports the `uki` field defined by the
                [Boot Loader Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification).
  * `1 << 17` → The boot loader supports the `uki-url` field defined by the
                [Boot Loader Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification).
  * `1 << 18` → The boot loader reports active TPM2 PCR banks in the
                EFI variable `LoaderTpm2ActivePcrBanks-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`.
  * `1 << 19` → The boot loader supports the `LoaderEntryPreferred` variable when set.

* The EFI variable `LoaderSystemToken-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains binary random data,
  persistently set by the OS installer.
  Boot loaders that support passing random seeds to the OS
  should use this data and combine it with the random seed file read from the ESP.
  By combining this random data with the random seed read off the disk
  before generating a seed to pass to the OS and a new seed to store in the ESP
  the boot loader can protect itself from situations where
  "golden" OS images that include a random seed are replicated and used on multiple systems.
  Since the EFI variable storage is usually independent
  (i.e. in physical NVRAM) of the ESP file system storage,
  and only the latter is part of "golden" OS images,
  this ensures that different systems still come up with different random seeds.
  Note that the `LoaderSystemToken` is generally only written once,
  by the OS installer,
  and is usually not touched after that.

* The EFI variable `LoaderDeviceURL-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains the URL the boot loader was downloaded from,
  in UTF-16 format.
  Only set in case of network boots.

* The EFI variable `LoaderTpm2ActivePcrBanks-4a67b082-0a4c-41cf-b6c7-440b29bb8c4f`
  contains a hexadecimal string representation of a bitmask with values defined by
  the TCG EFI ProtocolSpecification for TPM 2.0 as `EFI_TCG2_BOOT_HASH_ALG_*`.
  If no TPM2 support or no active banks were detected, will be set to `0`.

If `LoaderTimeInitUSec` and `LoaderTimeExecUSec` are set, `systemd-analyze`
will include them in its boot-time analysis.  If `LoaderDevicePartUUID` is set,
systemd will mount the ESP that was used for the boot to `/boot`, but only if
that directory is empty, and only if no other file systems are mounted
there. The `systemctl reboot --boot-loader-entry=…` and `systemctl reboot
--boot-loader-menu=…` commands rely on the `LoaderFeatures` ,
`LoaderConfigTimeoutOneShot`, `LoaderEntries`, `LoaderEntryOneShot`
variables.

## Boot Loader Entry Identifiers

While boot loader entries may be named relatively freely,
it's highly recommended to follow these rules when picking identifiers for the entries,
so that programs (and users) can derive basic context and meaning from the identifiers
as passed in `LoaderEntries`, `LoaderEntryPreferred`, `LoaderEntryDefault`,
`LoaderEntryOneShot`, `LoaderEntrySelected`,
and possibly show nicely localized names for them in UIs.

1. When boot loader entries are defined through the
   [BOOT.1 Boot Loader Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification/)
   files, the identifier should be derived directly from the file name,
   but with the `.conf` (Type #1 snippets) or `.efi` (Type #2 images)
   suffix removed.

2. Entries automatically discovered by the boot loader
   (as opposed to being configured in configuration files)
   should generally have an identifier prefixed with `auto-`.

3. Boot menu entries referring to Microsoft Windows installations
   should either use the identifier `windows`
   or use the `windows-` prefix for the identifier.
   If a menu entry is automatically discovered,
   it should be prefixed with `auto-`, see above.
   (Example: this means an automatically discovered Windows installation
   might have the identifier `auto-windows` or `auto-windows-10` or so.).

4. Similarly, boot menu entries referring to Apple macOS installations
   should use the identifier `osx` or one that is prefixed with `osx-`.
   If such an entry is automatically discovered by the boot loader use `auto-osx` as identifier,
   or `auto-osx-` as prefix for the identifier, see above.

5. If a boot menu entry encapsulates the EFI shell program,
   it should use the identifier `efi-shell`
   (or when automatically discovered: `auto-efi-shell`, see above).

6. If a boot menu entry encapsulates a reboot into EFI firmware setup feature,
   it should use the identifier `reboot-to-firmware-setup`
   (or `auto-reboot-to-firmware-setup` in case it is automatically discovered).

## Links

[UAPI.1 Boot Loader Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification)<br>
[UAPI.2 Discoverable Partitions Specification](https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/discoverable_partitions_specification)<br>
[`systemd-boot(7)`](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-boot.html)<br>
[`bootctl(1)`](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/bootctl.html)<br>
[`systemd-gpt-auto-generator(8)`](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd-gpt-auto-generator.html)
